[MUSIC]
[NOISE]
So,
now let's talk a little bit about the
actual processor inside the Raspberry Pi,
just a bit.
So it's an ARM based processor.
So what does that mean?
So the processor, it's a Broadcom chip,
right, a Broadcom SoC, but
it's an ARM based processor.
So, ARM processors,
ARM is a company, a British company,
and they license intellectual property.
So what that means is they don't
actually fabricate these chips.
What they do is they design the chip,
or they design the core of the chip,
the processor core.
So they design the processor, and
then they license the design to a company.
So they don't fabricate it, they don't
build a chip, they sell it to, they say,
okay, Freescale, for instance,
you can pay us this money,
you can fabricate a number of these chips.
So they give the design to
the processor to, say, Freescale or TI,
whatever company it is it's licensing.
And then that company
builds a system around it.
So the picture that we have here on
the right is not our particular processor.
It's just sort of a generic SoC,
generic System On Chip.
Now, you can see that
there's a processor up there.
One of the blocks says
processor on the top.
That block, that would be the ARM
processor core that is licensed from ARM.
But then around that, the company who
licenses it, in our case Broadcom,
would say, okay, in addition to this
processor we need some debug logic,
we need some flash memory,
we need some SRAM.
They take all the other
components that they design.
Either they design them themselves, or
they license them from other companies, or
ARM itself, right?
They can license all these components or
build them themselves.
But they build this whole
system around the processor.
So there is a a processor licensed by ARM,
and
then there are a bunch of other components
that Broadcom decides to put together.
And they put them together on
a couple a buses and so on.
And then they make a chip out of it and
they fabricate that, and
they sell it as their part.
So, even though it's a Broadcom chip,
it's a Broadcom SOC,
it's actually an ARM
processor core inside it.
And what that means is that defines
the instruction set that's used.
So, these processors, the machine code
instructions that are used are ARM
machine code instructions, because
at its heart, it's an ARM processor.
So, ARM licenses the intellectual
property, and just so
you know,
ARM licenses most embedded processors,
most processors that you find
in an IOT device of any kind,
like my cellphone, for instance,
like this camera in front of me.
All these different devices they all,
almost all of them,
have ARM processors,
ARM cores inside, okay.
So ARM just dominates that market pretty
well, not completely but pretty well.
So silicon vendors like Broadcom,
or Freescale, or
whoever build this System On Chip design
based on the ARM IP, IP standing for
intellectual property.
Over 15 silicon vendors use ARM and
they dominate.
And ours is a Broadcom BCM2836 SoC,
based on an ARM Cortex A7 processor core.
So ARM Cortex A7 is the name of
the processor core ARM sells, or
one of the many processor
cores that ARM sells.
So just let's take a glance
at this ARM processor family,
ARM sells a lot of processor cores.
This is ARM's marketing material and
they are trying to plot all
the different processors that they sell.
Now, if we look at it on the left side,
in the blue,
they have what are called
the classic processors.
That's ARM 7, ARM 9 ARM 11.
Classic means old, okay,
so they're old processors.
Now, they still support
these because there are so
many out there in the wild, right?
Because there are so
many products that still have those.
But newer products, those parts are,
I don't even know if they license that
out new to anybody, probably not.
But they certainly support those.
So those are the classic ones.
The cortex processes
are all their newer ones.
So you see the cortex processors,
actually you can see that
they go from bottom to top.
Roughly what bottom to top means in this
chart is it refers to power performance.
Not just power,
I shouldn't say power because it's not.
Actually it does relate somewhat to power
consumption but it's performance and
ability features.
The amount of features that it has.
So the processor at the bottom,
take that green one, that Cortex-M0.
That thing is their low,
low end processor core.
It has the fewest features,
it's the slowest, and so on.
Where you scale all the way
up to that Cortex A15,
in fact they might even be up to, I think
they might have an A17, I can't remember.
But anyway, that's high end.
That type of processor would be used
in laptops and desktops, or tablets, or
something like that, right?
And it's faster, it has lots of memory,
lots of stuff on it.
So they have this sliding scale.
And they categorize those into
embedded and application, right.
The green ones are embedded,
those orangey,
yellow looking ones are our application.
But really I see them,
there's a sliding scale.
So there's not a hard difference between
what they're calling embedded and
what they're calling application.
It's just they're getting more and
more capability as you go up.
Now the one that our Broadcom processes,
the Raspberry Pi uses has,
is the Cortex A7.
So I've highlighted that and
circled it in red there.
The Cortex A7 is the one that
our processor's based on,
which is pretty good.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]